_pages/openings.md, before:

---
layout: default
permalink: /openings/
title: Openings @ MADES
description: Openings @ MADES
nav: true
nav_order: 3
---

We are always looking for talented researchers to join our laboratory. Please read the information on this page _before_ applying for a position in the laboratory. Hiring is done on a rolling basis through out the year.  

The MADES laboratory is interested in the development and application of computational techniques to the design and discovery of advanced engineering materials. Researchers in the laboratory have the opportunity to collaborate with internal and external research groups. We especially value creative researchers with a passion for bridging basic science with advanced engineering applications. Candidates will have the opportunity to work in a diverse, interdisciplinary and dynamic environment.

### Doctoral Students & Postdoctoral researchers

Applicants for doctoral positions in the laboratory must have a good understanding of the fundamentals of materials science. Candidates with prior experience in programming, or the application of computer simulation to materials science will be given preference. Students are encouraged to first apply to the [doctoral program](https://www.epfl.ch/education/phd/edmx-materials-science-and-engineering/) before reaching out to us. Successful candidates are typically required to have (or be close to receiving) a masters degree. Exceptional candidates with a bachelors degree may be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Postdoctoral researchers are expected to be well-versed in applying computational methods to solving significant challenges in materials science. Successful candidates will have the opportunity to lead projects that combine first-principles calculations, machine-learning and statistical mechanics techniques to design novel materials and processing techniques. The ideal candidate should have a passion for applying cutting edge research techniques across research domains and length scales. Postdoctoral scholars must also have good programming skills, experience with high-throughput computing and a good understanding of advanced concepts in materials science.

To apply for a postdoctoral or graduate student position please send your application to this [e-mail address](mailto:anirudh.natarajan@epfl.ch?subject=*RECRUITMENT*). Your application must contain:
- a recent CV (including publication list, and full academic transcripts)
- contact information of two references
- brief cover letter explaining your interest in MADES and how your profile fits our research goals

### Opportunities for students at EPFL
MADES offers several semester and thesis projects to **students** at EPFL. The goals of the projects are tailored to individual student interests and the current topics of interest to the laboratory. Students that are interested in pursuing a project with MADES are encouraged to have:
- A basic understanding of working in a `UNIX` environment.
- Elementary skills in any programming language such as `python`, `C++`, `julia` etc.
- Well-versed in physics, mathematics and chemistry at the undergraduate level.

If required, several tutorials on programming and computing within `UNIX` environments are readily available online. Please send an e-mail with your CV to [this address](mailto:anirudh.natarajan@epfl.ch?subject=*EPFL Project*) if you are interested in pursuing a project in MADES for the upcoming semester.

### Funding Opportunities

Researchers outside of EPFL can apply for several competitive fellowships that will enable them to conduct research within MADES. A few of these opportunities are listed below:

- [SNSF Swiss Postdoctoral Fellowships](https://www.snf.ch/en/m1NtWp4nTELQixlu/funding/horizon-europe-swiss-postdoctoral-fellowships) : Funding for **postdoctoral researchers**
- [INSPIRE Potentials](https://nccr-marvel.ch/outreach/equal-opportunities/inspire-potentials) : Fellowship opportunity from MARVEL that is targeted at **women students** that want to conduct their _Master's research thesis_ at EPFL 
- [E3 Program](https://eee.epfl.ch/) : Summer fellowship for **undergraduate and masters students**   
- [ERIP](https://www.epfl.ch/education/international/en/coming-to-epfl/research-internships/) : Internships for students from specific partner institutions
- [Compilation of postdoctoral fellowships from EPFL](https://www.epfl.ch/campus/associations/list/polydoc/page-150985-en-html/page-151013-en-html/page-151022-en-html/)

Commit message:

Added advertisement for new position

_pages/openings.md, after:

---
layout: default
permalink: /openings/
title: Openings @ MADES
description: Openings @ MADES
nav: true
nav_order: 3
---

> ##### Postdoctoral research associate position : Computational design of multicomponent materials
> The Laboratory of Materials Design and Simulation (MADES) at the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), led by Prof. Anirudh Raju Natarajan, has an opening for a postdoctoral research associate. The successful candidate will lead an exciting project focused on utilizing first-principles models, machine-learning techniques and statistical mechanics simulations to design  synthesizable multicomponent materials with favorable mechanical properties. The postdoc will get an opportunity to work closely with experimental collaborators and world-class researchers at EPFL.
> 
> Candidates with a passion for scientific inquiry, and creativity are invited to apply. The position requires:
>  - A doctoral degree in materials science or a closely related field
>  - Experience with first-principles methods such as density-functional theory, Monte-Carlo simulations, molecular dynamics etc.
>  - Strong background in thermodynamics, statistical mechanics and crystallography
>  - (Optional) Programming skills as evidenced by contributions to a widely used codebase would be preferred
>  - (Optional) Experience with machine-learning tools such as PyTorch or TensorFlow
>  - Proficient in written and spoken English
> 
> Interested candidates should send an email to Prof. Natarajan (anirudh.natarajan@epfl.ch) with the following documents:
> 1. CV
> 2. One page cover letter highlighting research interests, experience and future plans
> 3. (Optional) Link to a code sample or codebase developed by the candidate
> Please include "postdoc@MADES" in the subject line of the e-mail.
> 
> Preference will be given to candidates that are available to begin their appointment by August 2024, although we are open to discussing the exact start date. The salary will be according to the scale for postdoctoral candidates as prescribed by the ETH board. Applicants must have a PhD before starting their appointment. The initial appointment length will be for up to 12 months with a potential for extension subject to performance and availability of funding.
{: .block-announce }

We are always looking for talented researchers to join our laboratory. Please read the information on this page _before_ applying for a position in the laboratory. Hiring is done on a rolling basis through out the year.  

The MADES laboratory is interested in the development and application of computational techniques to the design and discovery of advanced engineering materials. Researchers in the laboratory have the opportunity to collaborate with internal and external research groups. We especially value creative researchers with a passion for bridging basic science with advanced engineering applications. Candidates will have the opportunity to work in a diverse, interdisciplinary and dynamic environment.

### Doctoral Students & Postdoctoral researchers

Applicants for doctoral positions in the laboratory must have a good understanding of the fundamentals of materials science. Candidates with prior experience in programming, or the application of computer simulation to materials science will be given preference. Students are encouraged to first apply to the [doctoral program](https://www.epfl.ch/education/phd/edmx-materials-science-and-engineering/) before reaching out to us. Successful candidates are typically required to have (or be close to receiving) a masters degree. Exceptional candidates with a bachelors degree may be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Postdoctoral researchers are expected to be well-versed in applying computational methods to solving significant challenges in materials science. Successful candidates will have the opportunity to lead projects that combine first-principles calculations, machine-learning and statistical mechanics techniques to design novel materials and processing techniques. The ideal candidate should have a passion for applying cutting edge research techniques across research domains and length scales. Postdoctoral scholars must also have good programming skills, experience with high-throughput computing and a good understanding of advanced concepts in materials science.

To apply for a postdoctoral or graduate student position please send your application to this [e-mail address](mailto:anirudh.natarajan@epfl.ch?subject=*RECRUITMENT*). Your application must contain:
- a recent CV (including publication list, and full academic transcripts)
- contact information of two references
- brief cover letter explaining your interest in MADES and how your profile fits our research goals

### Opportunities for students at EPFL
MADES offers several semester and thesis projects to **students** at EPFL. The goals of the projects are tailored to individual student interests and the current topics of interest to the laboratory. Students that are interested in pursuing a project with MADES are encouraged to have:
- A basic understanding of working in a `UNIX` environment.
- Elementary skills in any programming language such as `python`, `C++`, `julia` etc.
- Well-versed in physics, mathematics and chemistry at the undergraduate level.

If required, several tutorials on programming and computing within `UNIX` environments are readily available online. Please send an e-mail with your CV to [this address](mailto:anirudh.natarajan@epfl.ch?subject=*EPFL Project*) if you are interested in pursuing a project in MADES for the upcoming semester.

### Funding Opportunities

Researchers outside of EPFL can apply for several competitive fellowships that will enable them to conduct research within MADES. A few of these opportunities are listed below:

- [SNSF Swiss Postdoctoral Fellowships](https://www.snf.ch/en/m1NtWp4nTELQixlu/funding/horizon-europe-swiss-postdoctoral-fellowships) : Funding for **postdoctoral researchers**
- [INSPIRE Potentials](https://nccr-marvel.ch/outreach/equal-opportunities/inspire-potentials) : Fellowship opportunity from MARVEL that is targeted at **women students** that want to conduct their _Master's research thesis_ at EPFL 
- [E3 Program](https://eee.epfl.ch/) : Summer fellowship for **undergraduate and masters students**   
- [ERIP](https://www.epfl.ch/education/international/en/coming-to-epfl/research-internships/) : Internships for students from specific partner institutions
- [Compilation of postdoctoral fellowships from EPFL](https://www.epfl.ch/campus/associations/list/polydoc/page-150985-en-html/page-151013-en-html/page-151022-en-html/)
